two from one in this video we're gonna
talk about a pathetic failure of a vegan
movement in Canada which is called
nation rising if that is a sound like a
vegan around go ahead and google it you
get a lot of false search results
whether you're searching within you know
YouTube or the internet large it sounds
like and looks like some kind of
neo-nazi front they chose a really poor
logo and color scheme but yet nation
rising was the brand image that decided
to go with it
where'd that with that and we're gonna
answer a question I get from time to
time what do I really think about the
cube of truth anonymous for the
voiceless and this method of street
activism which I think it 2018 is one of
the most popular one of the most talked
about approaches to vegan activism and
you know hashtag spoilers I think in
both cases we have to examine the extent
to which this may be a waste of our time
um forms of street activism street
theatre street protests are based on
very definite assumptions about who the
participants are I know I mean I've
known and spoken with many people who
were early members of DXE direct action
everywhere and who later got
disillusioned with the group and quit
and it's interesting a lot of them talk
about the kind of holiday street kid
character that happened it's early days
there was just this assumption built
into the movement that they were
building these protests out of people
who were kind of unemployed or
underemployed school dropouts with
nothing to lose who wouldn't mind going
to prison for a good cause um you know
wasn't just there were they were saving
the planet but this idea that they're
all kind of a rebel without a cause and
it just recently I've heard an interview
with Wayne Young I guess I'll make a a
separate video about it where he's again
glorifying and lionizing the idea that
the progress of a civil rights movement
is never gonna happen without people
getting beaten up by police and put in
prison in the sort of thing so he's
joined in the the tradition of kind of
mindlessly glorifying
civil disobedience for the sake of civil
disobedience and people facing the
consequences going to the prison for the
purpose of prison now when you just take
the mask off these people when you think
about them as real individuals and not
as a stereotype you know obviously at
some stage the stereotype might have had
you don't live some truth to it I mean a
lot of stereotypes they're
generalizations about people but some
percentage the people that stare at them
apply do you know when you look at you
know a group of 10 protestors and let's
say they're literally wearing wearing
masks and I said oh yeah these 10 people
who are gonna spend the next four hours
standing still like mannequins holding a
computer screen holding of you know a
screen this play movie these nebulae
that guy over there Steve he's an
architect
you know Jim he's actually a really
successful actor and a musician
he's got a background playing music
doing live stage shows and he's been on
a couple of you may be said some small
parts of TV show oh yeah and you know
this this other guy he's actually a
medical doctor the other guy
you know let's just say we don't imagine
these are rebels without a cause that
these are unemployed or unemployable you
know street urchins trying to tear down
the Bastille in the French Revolution
and I mean that really is the the kind
of messaging the kind of rhetoric the
the so-called radical movements traded
you know the early period of direct
action everywhere even though in reality
it was founded and controlled by a you
know formal corporate lawyer Wayne Siong
who is now very proud to be facing 30
years in prison he's known him says 60
years amazing years in prison so yeah
great go from from lawyer to jailbird in
the early days they they didn't admit
really heavily who the leadership was
not a little ship works they pretend to
be fully or some organization or group
like you know nation rising nation
rising was absolutely founded on a built
on the rhetoric quote it's not a protest
it's a revolution close quote and see
that you go to their own website you go
to the other websites like Facebook and
event pages one called carpe diem
listing the event they have these
propaganda images where they were really
throwing this event as revolutionary in
principle in spirit and probably this
was something
other than a protest and again they're
depicting themselves as a bunch of
reckless radicals I guess willing to go
to prison I guess willing to die I guess
willing to kill people revolution in the
name of animal rights veganism etcetera
now it's needless to say what actually
happened was anti-climatic they did not
live up to any of their own hype what
they did live up to I'll get to in a
second but when you take the masks off
these people who are participating in a
cube of truth protest when you get to
know them as unique individuals it will
inevitably dawn on you that this form of
activism is a waste of their time is a
waste of their talent is a waste of
their potential right again it doesn't
even matter what their particular jobs
educational backgrounds are what are
their talents this guy is a you know is
a medical doctor oh gee why is he
standing there wearing a mask and
holding a video screen don't you realize
that as a medical doctor there are all
these ways he could engage in public
education and outreach and lobbying and
there are all these positive things he
could do for veganism ramrods before
yeah Wow what do you think about that
this other guy is an actor and a
musician will right away you can think
of all kinds of ways that this person
could make a pause the difference that
are better than standing silently for
four hours wearing a mask um here's the
thing it takes some imagination it takes
some work but there is almost nobody so
stupid so lacking in resources and
creativity and Verve and tenacity so
incapable of contributing to the
democratic political process that the
best way they can spend their time is
standing on a street corner wearing a
mask holding a screen right now this
form of activism has been glorified
through careful editing of videos that
you know here on YouTube presented the
public what looks like a very
intellectually engaging series of
conversations between slightly reluctant
strangers and these being protesters and
that's an art form I understand I'm on
YouTube myself I could do that myself
it's a bit similar in principle to the
TV shows that used to show street
magicians they used to be a like a genre
of TV show where they took magicians out
of the studio out of the you know the
context of a nightclub of performing on
stage and instead of them walk up to
strangers in the street and perform
these tricks sometimes including
mind-reading what have you and guess
what the real trick is it's pre-recorded
it edited so you can have the same guy
walk up to ten different people and have
the same dialogue and one time out of
ten he seems to mysteriously guess it
you do the same card trick ten times and
one time out of ten it looks miraculous
and that's the take you use that's the
that's the version that gets through
editing yeah well you're not really
seeing the misery of standing there
wearing a plastic mask for four hours
per tickets you're American it's I'm
sorry this is the ultimate self
defeating waste of time for a protest
unless unless your assumptions about who
these people are and their human
potential in a democratic society even a
non democratic unless your estimate of
what they're capable of is so incredibly
low that you're like yeah you know you
know this guy Joe you know you know
Giuseppe yeah I think I think the best
thing you can do is put on this mask and
shut the [ __ ] up because wherever he
says there's only gonna make I think the
best form of activism lobbying public
education Ares I think I think Joe I
think you should focus on standing
selling you know what the face isn't
helping yes just do you might I've just
I've got my back you've got a cup you
try this just looks better you know that
I think I think this is let's roll with
this look
I know and I've criticized some terrible
examples of being activists terrible
here on YouTube some of them written
books some of them go on world tours
some of them become famous and most of
them don't they remain minor voices this
way who do a terrible job and to some
extent discredit veganism but at least
there's a learning process there even if
you just start off terrible if you're
not wearing a mask and standing silently
there's a process you'll engage in
public education and that that the
experience of lobbying government public
education or whatever you try to do the
experience of real
the collectivism is vegan it's gonna
educate others and it's also gonna
educate you
whether that education you experience is
something humiliating something
empowering something creative something
destructive I can't say you see people
break down weeping at City Hall
you start lobbying City Hall trust me
you've seen people wait y'all know fun
games okay that's Cuba truth look guys
I've already made a few comments on it
nation rising came out with this
tremendously provocative and pretentious
set of claims I had in the back of my
mind to do a follow-up video once their
Revolution happened it happened on the
14th of July in Ottawa
I was just googling extensively for it
and you can barely find a peep I will
provide two lengths two videos below
they're almost the only videos I can
find anywhere on the Internet
directly or indirectly reflecting this
event happened despite the fact that
they had support from a long long list
of organizations notably direct action
everywhere I wrote to them they refused
to clarify what their connections to
retention ever were
Juwanna a big save and their main
celebrity speaker was James aspeed I
think based on the video I think they
had fewer than 50 people show up for
their revolution it's not a protest it's
a revolution I think they had fewer than
50 people show up and here's what they
did and sorry the video I'm referring to
here which shows James asked me speech
to this crowd him preaching to the
converted when I saw the video it had
six views I think I'm viewer number six
six if I upload a video tomorrow of me
hanging my laundry to dry I'm gonna get
more than six views if I upload a video
talking about my sex life or how much I
hate my college in Canada I've done that
I mean I and trust me I'm gonna get more
than six years you're at a really low
ebb of public interest and credibility
if you're uploading a video like that
you're not even getting a significant
number of friends and family of the
participants watching it and I've
mentioned this before it is interesting
several of my rivals you know voice
debating the future of the vegan
movement some of them really are more
important than me
get shockingly low numbers of viewers
struggle the numbers of participants in
the different kinds of online for forums
sorry in school I did learn it's
actually forums is the plural of perform
not for up but sorry
you know and it's symptomatic and it
lets you know something shockingly level
participation despite having I think
more than a year of planning and
promotion for this event they're
shocking their role shockingly low level
of public interest on the Internet
anywhere I could possibly find it
whether on Facebook YouTube just Google
at large etc is significant and what
really happened again when we look
beyond the mask when we look at who is
at this event and what did they do
people stood there and listened to
platitudes platitudes from James ass be
that are so absurd that they really do
read like self arity you're making no
difference I mean we all want to make a
difference but vegan activist we have to
stop lying to ourselves if the stop
lying to others if to stop wasting
people's time and money you know this is
like the real-world equivalent of
clickbait its clickbait but there's no
click because this is a real life this
isn't on the internet you know II James
ass P stands up there and in his long
list of platitudes which is just him
patting himself on the back pad in the
audience the back everyone reassuring
themselves about how morally superior
they're at others he says quote the
world will change because of people like
us sitting in the Sun Parliament Hill
that's it together they don't have any
impact on government have any effect on
the public at large sitting in the Sun
and then the next thing he says is
hearing what a lot of us already know
there were a lot of weird and subtle
ironies but completely unintentional
irony's he's not doing this satirically
in this lecture he gave to the the so
called nation rising protests you know
he's talking about how to make a pause
the difference in the world but in
reality is what this whole fiasco is
proven is if you want to change the
world this ain't how this ain't
he's talking about questions of method
questions of principle but you know look
I mean I've got to say as a digression
here I really do believe that vegans are
ethically superior to non vegans and I
don't even think that's something that's
hard to debate or discuss when you
target a non vegans if you knew someone
who consistently refused to buy products
made by slaves they live in a
hypothetical world or somewhere in the
actual world where there's a border and
all the products made on that side of
the board are produced by slavery and
the products boots on that side are not
made by slavery and they said you hey
you know what when I buy strawberries I
make sure they come from that side of
the border because I know on the other
side of the border strawberries are
being picked by slave labor anyone would
just say hey you know what even if they
don't care even if they're I've gotta
change their lifestyle and consumer
choice and say you know what that's in a
very simple sense that's ethically
superior I take the time when I go to
the grocery store to read the label of
the food I buy a check does it have a
Gazette have milk I take that little bit
of time and instead of excluding human
slavery I'm excluding the completely
needless exploitation of animals apart
from the questions of ecology and health
which are very real there's a purely
ethical question there which I do think
I'm totally willing in a relaxed manner
completely non-religious atheist
nihilistic way to talk about the moral
and ethical superiority of being vegan
I'm not hung up on it yes I mean it is
laughable
it is absolutely laughable when you
advertise it's not a protest it's a
revolution and then the reality of what
you deliver is it's not a revolution and
it's not a protest it's a self
congratulation session where all you do
is hand out platitudes and pat yourself
on the back for your moral superiority